[docs] Arctype integration documentation (#11478)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/latest/tools/arctype.md

Arctype is a database client with a focus on speed and design. Arctype is free to use and cross platform. It offers one click query sharing for teams, and users can quickly visualize query output and even combine multiple charts and tables into a simple and intuitive dashboard.

![Arctype application](/images/develop/tools/arctype/Arctype-YB-Image-2.png)

## Before you begin

Your YugabyteDB cluster should be up and running. If you're new to YugabyteDB, create a local cluster in less than five minutes following the steps in [Quick Start](../../../quick-start/install). You can also get started with free tier of [YugabyteDB Fully-Managed Cloud](https://www.yugabyte.com/cloud/). You also need to install Arctype client on your computer. Arctype clients are available for Windows, Linux and Mac that can be downloaded from [Arctype](https://arctype.com/) website.

## Create a database connection

After installing and launching Arctype client on your computer, follow the steps below to connect to YugabyteDB.

1. Create an Arctype account and login after launching the client.

> 2. On 'Connect a Database' step, select PostgreSQL and click Continue.

Reviewer: They have now a dedicated YugabyteDB connection type. Better to mention this one (an show it in screenshot)

## Before you begin

Your YugabyteDB cluster should be up and running. If you're new to YugabyteDB, create a local cluster in less than five minutes following the steps in [Quick Start](../../quick-start/install). You can also get started with the free tier of [YugabyteDB Fully-Managed Cloud](https://www.yugabyte.com/cloud/). You also need to install the Arctype client on your computer. You can download clients are available for Windows, Linux, and Mac from the [Arctype](https://arctype.com/) website.

## Create a database connection

Follow these steps to connect your Arctype desktop client to YugabyteDB:

1. Launch the Arctype desktop client.

1. Follow the in-app prompts to create and log into your Arctype account.

1. On the "Connect a Database" step, select PostgreSQL, and click Continue.

    ![Connect DB Step](/images/develop/tools/arctype/arctype-conect_step3.png)

1. Enter your YugabyteDB host and port information, and click Continue.

    ![Enter host and port](/images/develop/tools/arctype/arctype-connect-step4.png)

1. Enter your database name, username, password, and nickname for this database, and click Continue.

>     ![Enter database connection details](/images/develop/tools/arctype/arctype-connect-step5.png)

Author: new screenshots have local IP(127). Added a note to follow cert instructions if using Yugabyte Cloud.

1. Enter a workspace name, and click Continue.

You've successfully created a connection to your YugabyteDB database, and you can now start querying and visualizing your DB using Arctype.

> ## What's Next

Reviewer 2: As the the last step in "Create a database connection", you need to include an actual test of your connection. See, for example, the last step in the [DBeaver doc](https://docs.yugabyte.com/latest/tools/dbeaver-ysql/). When I get to the end of the steps, I want to know that I've been successful!

Author: added test connection step

    weight: 2710
isTocNested: true
showAsideToc: true
---

This document describes how to query and visualize data in YugabyteDB using [Arctype](https://arctype.com/), a user-friendly collaborative SQL client.

Arctype is a database client with a focus on speed and design. Arctype is free to use and cross platform. It offers one click query sharing for teams, and users can quickly visualize query output and even combine multiple charts and tables into a simple and intuitive dashboard.

![Arctype application](/images/develop/tools/arctype/Arctype-YB-Image-2.png)

## Before you begin

Your YugabyteDB cluster should be up and running. If you're new to YugabyteDB, create a local cluster in less than five minutes following the steps in [Quick Start](../../quick-start/install). You can also get started with the free tier of [YugabyteDB Fully-Managed Cloud](https://www.yugabyte.com/cloud/). You also need to install the Arctype client on your computer. You can download clients are available for Windows, Linux, and Mac from the [Arctype](https://arctype.com/) website.

## Create a database connection

Follow these steps to connect your Arctype desktop client to YugabyteDB:

> 1. Launch the Arctype desktop client.
> 
> 2. Follow the in-app prompts to create and log into your Arctype account.
> 
> 3. On the "Connect a Database" step, select YugabyteDB.
> 
>     ![Connect DB](/images/develop/tools/arctype/arctype-connect_step3.png)
>     
>     {{< note title="Note" >}}
>     
>     Note: If you're using YugabyteDB Cloud, you need to add your computer to the cluster IP allow list. Refer to [Assign IP Allow Lists](https://docs.yugabyte.com/latest/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-secure-clusters/add-connections/).
>     You also need to download and install CA Cert root.crt certificate on your computer from YugabyteDB Cloud console for TLS encryption.
>     
>     {{< /note >}}
> 
> 4. Enter your YugabyteDB host, port, database, user and password information, and click 'Test Connection' and save if connection is successful.
> 
>     ![Enter host and port](/images/develop/tools/arctype/arctype-connect-step4.png)
> 
> 5. You can see the schemas and tables availabe in the YugabyteDB in the navigation panel.

Reviewer 2: Fix up formatting of the list, make URL relative, and make the note render correctly...

```suggestion
1. Launch the Arctype desktop client.

1. Follow the in-app prompts to create and log into your Arctype account.

1. On the "Connect a Database" step, select YugabyteDB.

    ![Connect DB](/images/develop/tools/arctype/arctype-connect_step3.png)

    {{< note title="Note" >}}

If you're using YugabyteDB Cloud, you need to add your computer to the cluster IP allow list. Refer to [Assign IP Allow Lists](../../yugabyte-cloud/cloud-secure-clusters/add-connections/). You also need to download and install CA Cert root.crt certificate on your computer from YugabyteDB Cloud console for TLS encryption.

    {{< /note >}}

1. Enter your YugabyteDB host, port, database, user, and password information, and click 'Test Connection' and save if connection is successful.

    ![Enter host and port](/images/develop/tools/arctype/arctype-connect-step4.png)

1. You can see the schemas and tables available in the YugabyteDB in the navigation panel.
```
